---
title: On Science Fiction
author: Jonathan Coulton
---

On Science Fiction
==================

It turns out the future doesn't really care about space travel. It used to, or
at least when I was growing up all the science fiction I read promised that
space travel would someday be commonplace. That was what made it the future: we
would all be so bored with flying to other planets that we wouldn't even really
talk about it anymore, it would just become a dull backdrop to our daily lives.
There would be aliens, obviously. Probably there would be some sort of
intergalactic governing body, maybe a war involving a trade federation, some
asteroid mines. At the very least, a mission to Mars. But it doesn't seem to be
shaping up that way.

There's always something that science fiction gets charmingly wrong about the
future. The problem is, every now and then there's an unanticipated seismic
shift in the world, something that changes everything and creates a corner we
can't see around. The most recent of these was the potent combination of
digital information and global connectivity that transformed the end of the
20th century. I like to call it "The Internet," and mark my words, it's going
to be very big. The struggling record industry, the death of the newspaper, the
rise of LOLCats - these are just warning shots. Everything is going to get
swallowed up eventually, and it's all going to get loud and messy and
complicated. Forget space travel, this is the future we need to imagine now,
and quickly, before it overtakes us.

Luckily, we have Cory Doctorow; he thinks about the Internet, a lot. And so his
stories are especially compelling because they are so relevant to our immediate
future. "Pester Power" tells us how the Internet has been watching us and
learning, and how it will finally, one day, wake up. "Scroogled" warns us of
what might happen if Google someday decides that yes, actually, they would like
to be evil after all. For a future-lover like me it's easy to get caught up in
rosy visions of a world where we're all connected, and everything is free, and
our in-brain iPods have every Beatles album with all the correct metadata.
Cory's fiction reminds us that we have quite a few thorny issues to sort out
before we get there, not least of which is the question of how people like Cory
are going to make a living when books and publishing companies disappear. But
of course he's thinking about that too.

With a Little Help [The book that Emily has been getting these fabulous stories 
from] is an experiment of sorts, an attempt to re-imagine what it
means to publish, market and sell a book. It will be self-published, and like
all of Cory's books it will be released under a Creative Commons license that
allows for non-commercial sharing and remixing. There will be a number of
price-points, ranging from free ebook and audiobook downloads, to
print-on-demand paperbacks, to hardcover special editions with all sorts of
extra goodies. The highest price-point comes with an opportunity to commission
a brand new story based on a mutually agreeable premise (hence, "Epoch").
Throughout the process Cory will hold weekly public production meetings on
Twitter in an effort to share information about the success or failure of these
strategies. The plan combines a lot of different new ideas - audience
participation, free culture, long tail economics - and it will test a few
hypotheses about what it might mean to be an author in the future. It's a
shotgun approach to innovation; as the old business models become quaint
antiques from a not-so-distant past, sometimes the best way forward is simply
to try a bunch of stuff and see what works.

At least, that was my theory when I finally decided to become a full-time
musician. I had spent years avoiding a career in the music business because it
seemed impossible. How do people discover you if you're not famous? And how do
you get famous if nobody ever discovers you? Then I heard about Creative
Commons, a brilliant licensing hack that sits on top of the complicated and
antiquated copyright system. It allows creators to specify ahead of time what
sorts of uses they'd like to allow for the things they create. For me and for
Cory this means allowing people to share our work freely, and to re-use it to
create new things. The first time the concept was explained to me I felt as
though someone had set my brain on fire - it was the most exciting idea I had
ever heard.

In my head, songs became little autonomous vehicles that I could release into
the wild, letting them bounce around and find their way to the people who would
enjoy them. It was a way to let this new "Internet" thing do all the heavy
lifting, an organic and efficient method of targeting an audience of fans who
did not yet know they were fans. On top of that, it was a perfect expression of
what I had always felt about art, this idea that everything ever created owes
its existence to something that came before. To be sure, there is a boundary
between inspiration and theft, but it's a thick and mushy one. When we create,
we borrow, we build, we steal. Declaring my intentions to allow this sort of
thing, indeed to encourage it, made perfect sense. I didn't have it all figured
out, but I started licensing my music with Creative Commons that very day. It
became the first piece of the puzzle, and it remains an essential component of
the mysterious machinery that now allows me to make my living as a musician. It
was just one of those ideas that resonated, the buzzing end of a long wire
stretching off into the distance, perhaps even around a corner or two.

Speaking of which, it's not unreasonable to ask: as a science fiction author,
what is it that Cory is getting wrong about the future? What is the corner that
he can't see around? Certainly there's something big coming, and we'll know it
once we've gotten past it. But until then, we've got our own rather sharp
corner to turn, and we're just now getting a glimpse of some of the possible
futures that might be in store for us. Here in the real world, where constant
change seems to be the new status quo, he's hedging against what we don't know,
not just thinking about the future, but trying to take us there.
