\endmulticols\vfill

Hoodie Update
=============

\begin{center}\begingroup\large

'Code, Sleep, Eat' hoodies have arrived!

Those who preordered should have received an email with details on
payment and collection.

If you haven't preordered, stay tuned for an update soon on when they
can be purchased.

\endgroup\end{center}
\byline{Lavender~Chan}
\vfill

The Last Word
=============

\multicols{2}

Well, here we are: the end of another week's Beta.  I hope you enjoyed
it, and hey, we did too.  Oh, and there was a bit of a gap there---I
hope you all enjoyed the break between semesters, and hope you're all
pumped for semester two.

Personally, I'm looking forward to \COMP2041.  I've been told by many
people that it's a fun course... but everyone seems to hate on Perl.
I love Perl!  It was one of the first languages I learned, some
fifteen-odd years ago, after C and Lisp, and I've used it a lot
since.  I moved to Ruby because it was so like Perl, and Perl taught
me how to use Awk and `sed(1)`.

I have, however, a significant distaste for Python.  Yes, it's a nice,
shiny language; as a friend put it, it's the closest thing you'll get
to executable pseudo-code; in my opinion, it's excruciatingly painful
to use.  Across the Python 2 to 3 gap, there are some very peculiar
changes that I cannot fathom; regular expressions, for example, on
string from process pipes, don't always work, due to Unicode.

On a similar, but different, note, if you consider the pipelining
'filter' paradigm as isomorphic to a composition of functions, an
exercise for the enterprising reader is to construct a functional
programming language with a POSIXly correct Bourne shell, or failing
that, Ksh or Zsh.  No, Bash is not a POSIXly correct Bourne shell.
\**growl*\*

Anyhow, that's enough of me rambling on.  If you've stumbled across
anything interesting, or you're keen to get involved, join the team
via the CSESoc website, or send in an
article---`beta@cse.unsw.edu.au`.  We'd love to hear from you, and
hey, your article will very likely end up in print.

Catch you next week!

\byline{Jashank~Jeremy}
