\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns

The News
========

\multicols{2}

We need to put all of the computers into the sea, urgently. I hope you
all disabled Flash and removed your JVM over the break.

__End of forced Google+ integration.__ After years of YouTube comment
spam (Bob's Army, et al) whining about the forced use of Google+ to
log into various products, Google have yielded and will formally end
the integration. Gmail and Hangouts have already had it turned off for
a while, and YouTube is up next. Google+ will remain as a less
prominent corner of the wider Google empire.

\begin{center}\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{images/bobsarmy.png}\end{center}

__Android SMS/MMS attack.__ Researchers from security firm Zimperium
have discovered a vulnerability affecting most Android installations,
estimated at 950 million devices. Remote code execution can be
triggered by SMS or MMS messaging, and there is no need for the user
to interact. Phones could be exploited while the user sleeps using
only their phone number, leaving a totally compromised phone with no
evidence of attack.

__Hacking Team fallout.__ Hacking Team, an Italian malware vendor and
international oppression squad, got thoroughly owned over the
break. All of their 0day exploits made it out, and all their emails
were uploaded to Wikileaks. The sudden release of so many
vulnerabilities at once put the world's infrastructure at extreme
risk, in too many ways to list in this little column. Several are
still unpatched. Encase your servers in concrete and hurl them into
the Pacific.

__Mozilla, Google almost kill Flash.__ Most relevant to Î²eta's handful
of readers are three Flash 0days. These were weaponised within days,
and despite patches, running Flash on untrusted sites or without SSL
is a very risky activity. Most browsers allow you to 'click to
enable', which helps somewhat. Mozilla and Google have taken another
tactic, blocking all vulnerable versions entirely. Nobody needs Flash
anymore---delete it.

__Charlie Jeep attack.__ Prominent security researcher Charlie Miller
is in the headlines again after remotely killing a Jeep that was in
motion on an American highway. Newer American vehicles tend to be
connected to the internet, complete with that trademark automotive
sector lack of subsystem isolation or critical system redundancy. Fiat
Chrysler have recalled 1.4 million vehicles, and are rolling out a
patch campaign by---wait for it---mailing millions of USB sticks
containing new firmware to customers. No danger to Australia, unless
we too slap modems into our cars and ask people to plug untrusted
devices into them.

__LastPass and OPM breaches.__ Cheer up, it's not all bad. Some people
still manage to stay safe online in 2015, probably. No idea
who. LastPass and a huge US government contractor, OPM, also got hosed
over the break. OPM held the very confidential contents of background
checks for federal employees, including those seeking clearances, and
that info is certain to be used for espionage. Stay offline. Airgap
everything. Stop using the tubes. Live in a Faraday cage. These are
your options.

\byline{Timothy~Humphries}
