\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns

#include \<women\>
==================

\begin{center}
{\large\it or, ``You're a perv, Jake, and you only want more women in
  Computing so you can sleep with them.''}
\end{center}
\multicols{2}

Okay, I'm exaggerating, but that's what it feels like when somebody
insinuates I have an ulterior motive behind my opinions on women in
computing.  As a straight, white, Australian, cis-gendered male, I've
had things pretty easy and I try my absolute best not to take it for
granted.  I do believe that we should be encouraging more women to
take up studies in Computer Science, because currently there's such a
disparity in participation between men and women in CS.  It does get
annoying when people ask me if I'm being ironic when they see the
`#include <women>` sticker on my phone, because---to quote every
twelvie on Tumblr ever---you know my name, not my story.

So let me tell you my story.

\vspace*{1em}

In January 1996, at about 3am one morning, a couple in labour at the
old Women's Hospital in Paddington gave birth to their first child.
At 3pm, the new mother had a shower, put on a black dress and went to
work to send some emails, sign some documents and have a meeting or
two.  The new father, not knowing what to do, lay down in the hospital
bed with his newborn son and turned the TV on.  There was a replay of
a footy game showing, which they watched together.  The newborn,
unsurprisingly, was me.

When my mum arrived at her office, 12 hours after I was born, her
co-workers were shocked.  Her maternity leave wasn't due to start for
another two weeks as I was born early, but whenever somebody told her
to go home, she just said, "No, I've had my baby and I'm back at work
now".  My mum ended up taking six months off when I was born and hated
every second of it, because she wasn't working.  When my younger
brother was born, she went back to work after two weeks.

That's the way it's been for the last 19½ years though.  My mum is a
career person, not a family person, and I respect her so much because
of it.  She's fought hard to get to where she is now, and she doesn't
take no for an answer.  (That's cliché, but it's the truth.  Never get
into a negotiation with her.  You will lose.) I thought my workload
last semester was tough.  But my mum recently held down a full time
job structuring billion dollar loans between banks while studying for
her fourth degree at a fourth university in a third different faculty.
She also managed the renovation of our family home, chaired a 'Women
in Finance' networking program, and also ran marathons in her spare
time, all while having to deal with three boys at home.  She's an
amazing woman and one of my biggest role models.

My father runs a company that imports and sells maternity and
pharmaceutical products to supermarkets and pharmacy's in Australia.
It's an industry that does lend itself to employing more women (I
mean, I would trust a woman over a man if I was buying a breast pump,
but that's just me), however he's always been proud to say that he
employs plenty of committed, hard working women.

\vspace*{1em}

So maybe now you can understand why I am fully in favour of getting
more women involved in computing.  There's no creepy perverted motive,
and it's most definitely _not_ ironic.  The way I was raised was that
women are just good as men, or trans gender, or however you identify.
My family has always been fairly clear on that, and it's one of the
reasons I'm so proud to be a part of the Bloom clan.  It's one of the
reasons that I'm so disappointed at the skew towards males in Computer
Science.  I'm not going to pretend that I'm smart enough to know the
exact reasons why, and I'm not going to pretend that I'm smart enough
to know how to fix it properly, but if I was put in charge tomorrow,
this would be my thought process.

The issue with a lot of "solutions" to this problem is that they are
stop-gap and don't accomplish much.  It could be compared to the issue
of the South African national Rugby team, which, in order to diversify
Rugby in the country, recently imposed a quota of seven non-white
players that must be included in the squad.  This doesn't really help
much at all, in fact it could weaken the team as selectors rush to
pick players to fill the quotas instead of the best players for the
job.

The same general idea exists in computing.  We can't go slapping
quotas on female/non-male employees, because then we aren't hiring the
best people for the job.  No little girl in school is going to look to
her future and say, "one day, I'm going to fill a quota".  It's
devaluing the profession, it's devaluing women and it doesn't really
fix the root of the problem either.  Also, unlike a national rugby
team, the interest probably isn't there if a massive company decided
they were going to hire 50% women.  There's a danger that they would
actually run out of women to hire, which probably isn't an issue if
you're selecting a rugby team.  For whatever reason, national Rugby is
seen as more glamourous than a career in software development.

\vspace*{1em}

Which brings me to my second point.  Every company in the world will
need developers in the future, even if it's only web developers to
maintain a website for a small business.  We're going to be just as
important as doctors and lawyers in 10 years---the New York stock
exchange just crashed and they had to call some developers to fix it.
The balance of power in the world is shifting, and we're going to be
the beneficiaries.

Companies are literally falling over each other to book in tech events
at CSESoc to try and attract the best talent.  "I have an interview
with Google," is a phrase that is embarrassingly common at CSESoc, yet
collects a fun double take from anybody outside the community.  It's
mathsy, and a lot like taking drugs (see my previous article) and
involves plenty of problem solving and design.  It pays well and has
very little unemployment, with plenty of scope to start your own
business.

We are in such an amazing industry, yet from the outside people see us
as nerdy, boring and awkward.

When people make assumptions about what we do based on (unwatchable
crap) TV shows like 'The IT Crowd' or 'The Big Bang Theory' (ugh) it
hurts.

When somebody posts on the \UNSW\ sub-reddit asking for good electives
to meet girls, it hurts.

I once met a girl at a Roundhouse party, and when I told her I was
studying Comp Sci, she said, "Oh yeah?  How many girls do you know,
like two?" and it hurt.  (I calmly and soberly reminded her that she
was studying Mechanical Engineering, but even so...)

IT has both huge marketing and image problems, to the extent that if
you haven't done any programming before coming to University, you're
unlikely to even try it out.  Law, Medicine, Accounting, and
Engineering students will jump straight into their degree with very
little experience in their field at all.  The image of the industry
will need to change from a sloppy, awkward neckbearded guy, to what it
actually should be: a diverse representation of amazing, talented
people.

The reason this image doesn't exist is because when you think of role
models in the tech industry, you think of Jobs, Zuckerberg, Wozniak
and Gates.  They're all white American males, who are mostly seen as
being socially awkward, even if it isn't the case (Woz, Zuck) or an
absolute slave driver (Jobs).  Mark Zuckerberg had a movie based
around him being mean to others, and his girlfriend famously said to
him, "You'll go through life thinking that girls don't like you because
you're a nerd...  it won't be true.  It will be because you're an
arsehole."

Men in IT have these role models to look up to, to judge their
"success" against.  Women in IT have...  Margaret Hamilton, who you'll
know from Tumblr reblogs as being the Senior Developer on a small
project called Apollo 11, and creator of the term "Software Engineer".
What you probably didn't know is that she founded her own company
called Higher Order Software, is currently CEO of Hamilton
Technologies, and has 130 publications over 60 major projects.
Without her, the crew of Apollo 11 would have died---look it up, I'm
not kidding---and we wouldn't have priority scheduling in Operating
Systems, and would probably all be called "code typers".

There's also Anita Borg (thanks Google) who started the Institute for
Women and Technology---but she also completed a PhD dissertation on
Synchronisation in Operating Systems.  If you want to know how
terrifying a world without synchronisation would be, I suggest you
take our Operating Systems course.  Oh, and Anita also forced Mattel
to remove a Barbie doll that said, "Math Class is Tough!".

These female roll models are far less known than their male
counterparts, despite equaling or surpassing them in levels of
success.  They should be mentioned in the same breath as Jobs and
Gates, along with Sheryl Sandberg and Nicola Mendelsohn of Facebook,
Dorcas Muthoni who transformed governments in Africa,
Elizabeth Feinler who helped develop Arpanet (later called the
Internet), or Ada Lovelace who wrote what is recognised to be the
first ever computer program in 1840, making her the first ever
programmer.

Side-note: why the f\*\*\* are we not taught that the first ever
programmer was a woman???????

\vspace*{1em}

At this point I need to stop and take a breath, and say that we are
now all part of the problem or part of the solution.  If you don't
believe that this is a genuine problem facing the industry, then
you're part of the problem.  As I said earlier, I don't have all the
answers, but this is my best attempt.

It's not going to be overnight, but in a few years time, I believe
that we can achieve 50/50 enrollment in Computer Science degrees.  In
the short term, Lovelace, Feinler, Muthoni, Hamilton, and Borg should
become household names, as instantly recognised as Jobs, Gates,
Zuckerberg.

It's important to have strong, empowering role models to inspire the
next generation of women who are considering their career options.
Write bestsellers about them or make movies about them---either way,
get these women out of obscurity and into the mass consciousness.  We
need girls and boys at school to be saying, "I want to help take
mankind to the moon like Margaret Hamilton," or, "I want to be a
pioneer like Ada Lovelace".  The achievements of Jobs and Zuckerberg
were built on top of the work done by these women, and it's time that
they were celebrated as such.

Secondly, and in the longer term, we need to focus on High Schools.
Countries typically seen as having high living standards (such our
Scandinavian mates) are putting programming into the school
curriculum.  While that may or may not have an effect, what needs to
happen is that every student in Australia who takes three or four unit
maths needs to understand that Computer Science is an achievable,
rewarding and reliable career option for them.  There are plenty of
people out there who are good at maths that don't want to be
Accountants and haven't even considered IT as a career path.  Even
Richard Buckland was an actuary before he became a Computer Scientist!

We need to shove ourselves in math student's collective faces, show
them how much fun we have, how well we are paid, our inspiring role
models and how closely related Mathematics and Computer Science is.
Once that happens, we need to keep that association in the public
mind.  When a student is in year 12 and says, "I really like maths"
the first words out of a Career Counsellor's mouth should be, "have
you considered going into programming?".

Finally---and this is the most important of all---we need to do
something about the image of the industry.  Make Computer Science a
place where women are accepted and valued just as equally as every
other person.  How do we achieve this? Bear with me here.

\vspace*{1em}

_Every single person in IT needs to stop being a dickhead._

\vspace*{1em}

It's so simple and effective it's almost beautiful.  They should have
sent a poet.  Now I'm not saying that every person in IT is a
dickhead.  None of my friends are, and you'd have to look hard in CSE
to find one.  What I am saying is that there are some dickheads out
there in the industry, who, for whatever reason, think it's their
right to put down other people.  And we all act like a dickhead from
time to time, myself included, because nobody is perfect.

But what needs to happen is that we need to start thinking long and
hard about the things we say and the people we say it to so that any
sort of casual sexism, racism or xenophobia is wiped out.  I was at a
formal dinner once where the guy sitting next to me was insistent
that, on the basis of evidence of there being so few women in
computing, men are intrinsically better at it and more suited to it.

Bullshit.

Maybe 90% of people aren't sexist and see the world the same way as I
do.  Maybe the other 10% are unreasonable and will never have their
minds changed.  For us 90% of people (lets call this group, "decent
human beings"), it's about not being careless.  The odd casually
sexist remark does more damage than we realise, and for us, it's now
about really trying hard not to slip up and say something that could
be sexist.

For the decent human beings among us, when somebody makes a joke about
how few women are in computing, we need to stop them and say
"Actually, IT is a really diverse and rewarding profession.  Yes,
gender equality isn't what it should be, but we're a very accepting
bunch" and then back up those words with actions.

Eventually, we can change the image of our profession, but it starts
with you and me, and it's a responsibility we all have---we owe it to
the strong female programmers who have come before us, and we owe it
to the strong female programmers who will come after us.  If we can
stop ourselves from being dickheads, we can create a healthier,
happier community that is more accepting for all.

And when that happens, the other 10% of non-decent human beings will
start to fade.

\byline{Jake~Bloom}
