---
title: The Right Book
author: Cory Doctorow
---

The Right Book: Part 2
======================

+75 years (or so)

The kids in the shop were like kids everywhere. That weird, hyperaware thing
that came from the games they played all the time, even in their sleep; the
flawless skin and teeth (because no parent would dare choose otherwise at
conception), the loud, hooting calls that rippled through the little social
groups whenever a particularly bon mot vibrated its way through their tight
little networks, radiating at the speed of light.

Chloe watched them keenly from her perch behind the counter. After seventy-some
years perching on a stool, she'd finally done away with it. The exoskeleton
she'd been fitted for on her 90th birthday would lock very handily into a
seated position that took all the pressure off her bum and knees and hips. It
was all rather glorious.

Kids came into the store every day now, and in ever-increasing numbers. She
flicked her eyes sideways and menued over to her graph of young people in the
shop over time, warming herself on the upward trend.

It was Arthur's 110th birthday today, the mad old sod, and he was meant to be
coming into the shop for one of his rare tours of inspection. That had the
staff all a-twitter. He was something of a legend, the man who'd started the
distributorship that put small, carefully curated handsful of books into the
few retailers across the land who'd let young people in. No one could have
predicted how well books and Halal fried chicken went together.

"How long have you known him, then?" Marcel, her store manager, was only a few
years older than the kids who ghosted past her counter, playing some weird
round of their game, listening to cues only they could hear, heads all cocked
identically.

"Let me put it this way -- the first time we met, I was riding a brontosaurus."

He did her the favor of a smile, radiant and handsome as a movie marquee. They
were all like that these days. Thankfully she was old enough not to feel
self-conscious about it.

"Seriously, Chloe, when did you meet him?"

"I was fourteen -- no fifteen. That was before he was Sir Arthur Levitt, Savior
of English Literacy, you understand."

"And before you were Chloe Autumn, superstar author?" He was kidding her.
They'd stopped caring about what she wrote decades before he was born, but he
knew about her history and liked to tease. He had an easy way about him, and it
showed in the staff.

"Before then, yes."

"I still don't quite understand what it was he did -- what was so different
about his bookshop?"

"It wasn't a bookshop," she said. "You didn't know that part?" He shook his
head. "Well, that's the most important part. It wasn't a bookshop. Back then,
bookshops were practically the only place you could get a book. Oh, sure, the
newsagents might carry a few titles, but they were the same titles, all around
the country. Bookshops are fine if you already love books, but how do you fall
in love with books? Where does it start? There have to be books everywhere, in
places where you go before you know you're a reader. That was the secret."

"So how'd he do it?"

"I'll tell you how," Arthur said. He'd padded up to the counter on the oiled,
carefully balanced carapace of his exoskeleton, moving as spryly as a jaguar.
His eyes glittered with mad, birdy glee. "Hello, Chloe," he said.

"Happy birthday, love," she said, uncurling herself and levering herself up on
tiptoe -- the gyros whining -- to give him a kiss on the cheek. "Arthur, this
is Marcel."

They shook hands.

"I'll tell you how," Arthur said again, clearly enjoying the chance to unfurl
one of his old, well-oiled stories. "It was all about connecting kids up with
their local neighborhoods and the tastes there. Kids know what their friends
want to read. We had them curate their own anthologies of the best, most
suitable material from The Story So Far, put all that local knowledge to work.
The right book for the right person in the right place. You've got to give them
a religious experience before you can lure them into coming to church regular."

"Arthur thinks reading is a religion," Chloe said, noting Marcel's puzzled
expression.

"Obsolete, you mean?" Marcel said.

Arthur opened his mouth, shut it, prepared to have an argument. Chloe
short-circuited it by reaching under the counter and producing a carefully
wrapped package.

"Happy birthday, you old sod," she said, and handed it to Arthur.

He was clearly delighted. Slowly, he picked at the wrapping paper, making
something of a production of it, so much so that the kids started to drift over
to watch. He peeled back a corner, revealing the spine of the book, the neat
stitching, the nylon from an old, old backpack, the worn denim, the embroidered
title on the spine.

"You didn't," he said.

"I certainly did," she said, "now finish unwrapping it so that we can have some
cake."

#

150 years from now(ish)

The young man blinked his eyes at the coruscating lights and struggled into a
seated position, brushing off the powdery residue of his creation. "The Story
So Far?" he said.

"The Story So Far," a voice agreed with him from a very long way off and so
close in, it was practically up his nose.

"Better than Great Expectations again," he said, getting to his feet, digging
through the costumes on the racks around him. Knowledge slotted itself in his
head, asserting itself. Plots, other characters, what had come before, the
consensus about where things might go next. He didn't like the consensus. He
began to dress himself.

"Tell me about the reader," he said. The voice was back in an instant,
describing the child (four), the circumstances of his birth and life, his
interests. "So I'm a picture book?"

"No," the voice said. "He's reading in chapters now. It's the cognitive
fashion, here." At /here/, more knowledge asserted itself, the shape of the
comet on which they all resided, their hurtling trajectory, a seed-pod of
humanity on its way /elsewhere/.

"Right," he said, putting on gloves, picking out a moustache and a sword and a
laser-blaster. "Let's go sell some books."


*Afterword:*

This is another story that was inspired by Patrick Nielsen Hayden; specifically
by his very nice rant about how the collapse of small, local book distributors
that served grocers and pharmacies -- and the rise of national distributors who
serve big-box stores -- has destroyed the primary means by which new readers
enter the field. It's all well and good to have terrific giant bookstores (or
fabulous neighborhood stores, for that matter), but people don't go into those
stores unless they already love books. In the past, the love affair with books
often began outside of bookstores, in grocers and pharmacies, where you might
happen upon any number of quirky, hand-picked paperbacks stocked by the local
distributor. With the choice of books available outside of bookstores narrowed
to the handful of titles with national distribution, it's far less likely that
any given reader will discover "the right book" -- the one that turns her into
a book-junkie for the rest of her life.

Thus, this story. /The Bookseller/, Britain's oldest publishing trade magazine,
commissioned a story from me for its 150th anniversary issue -- three parts,
depicting the future of bookselling in 50, 100 and 150 years.


(Published under the CC license, original available at craphound.com)
