---
title: Writing Software is like Taking Drugs
author: Jake Bloom
---

\endmulticols
\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill\pagebreak

Writing Software Is Like Taking Drugs
=====================================

\begin{center}
{\large\it or, "how, high are you?"}
\end{center}

\multicols{2}

When you're in the Computer Science industry for as long as I have
been (which is to say, not very long at all), you'll notice that
people from different backgrounds have standards for doing things.
For example, if teams need to collaborate, they'll use Git or
Subversion, not OpenLearning.  If it's been storming for a week,
people don't move their deadlines.  And, for some reason, people
always compare writing software to taking drugs.

Coworkers, Google Site-visit panellists, and strangers on the Internet
have all told me that being a programmer is like being addicted to
drugs, and writing a piece of code is like doing drugs.  The only
problem is, while I know what it's like to write code, I don't know
what it's like to take drugs.

In an effort to fix this, I decided to source and take some drugs.
For some reason, nobody was selling on street corners around Bondi and
Vaucluse, so I decided to head to Kings Cross in search of drugs.

I ended up meeting a gentleman, obviously on steroids, with a sleeve
tattoo who seemed to think that he knew a lot more than I did.  Let's
call him "client".  At first, communication between myself and client
was a bit awkward, it seemed like neither of us could put into words
what we really wanted out of this experience.  Eventually, out of
necessity and lack of time rather than the deal actually being ready,
we made the exchange.  It seemed like neither of us were really happy
with the result though.

So yeah, I guess a drug deal is like a client meeting.  It's awkward,
and nobody ever leaves satisfied.

After this fateful night, things seemed to spiral out of control.  I
had no idea where I was or what I was doing, but I know that I had a
problem (I had no drugs) and I needed to solve this problem (by
getting drugs).  Thing is, having to solve this problem consumed me,
and all I could think about while was awake, and even while I was
asleep.  If this sounds familiar to you, it's probably because that's
exactly how having a piece of code not working feels like.  Fix it.
Fix it.  Why isn't it fixed yet.  We need a fix for it.  JAKE GET YOUR
FIX.  The similarities are starting to become clear now.

And then I took a hit of drugs.  Reality and responsibilities float
away, and all thats left is a feeling of pure joy, because you got
what you needed, and things are good.  You want to run into the
streets and scream out, you want to laugh your head off and hug your
mates.  You're invincible, you're the greatest.  This is the greatest
moment of your life.  This.  Is.  It.  I think I have felt this before
though.  Like that time I finished Mandelbrot.  Or when the boards in
COMP2121 finally do what you expect.  When you build the OS161 Kernel
and run it without a panic.  It's incredible.  It's beautiful.  And it
feels exactly like being high.  Or reading "All tests passed, you are
awesome!".  I forget which one I am really talking about.

The truth is solving a real world problem that actually helps people
gives you a buzz.  Helping people feels good, and thats why we do what
we do.  And every time we get that buzz, we want it more.  And more.
Being a Software Developer lets you work on projects that help people
in a real way, and makes you feel good.  The way the world is heading,
every company will use software sooner or later.  We will be as
important as Politicians, Lawyers and Bankers in the future, except we
help people.  And it feels so good that it's addictive.

__DISCLAIMER__: I have never taken drugs in my life.  Much of this
article is fiction. Drerghs are bad, mmkay?

\byline{Jake~Bloom}
