\endmulticols\vfill

Hoodie Update
=============

\begin{center}\begingroup\large

'Code, Sleep, Eat' hoodies are still in stock at the Socs office on
level 3 of K17.

If you pre-ordered and haven't yet collected, now's an excellent time
to do so.

\endgroup\end{center}
\byline{Lavender~Chan}
\vfill

The Last Word
=============

\multicols{2}

Well, here we are: the end of another week's Beta.  I hope you enjoyed
it, and hey, we did too.

So, who read Mary Ann Davidson's bombing of the blogosphere yesterday
with her piece, "No, You Really Can't"?  (Who read it _before_ Oracle
took it down?)

From an information security position, Davidson has put herself and
her company into a truly terrifying position.  By hallucinating that
an end-user license agreement would be any sort of protection of one's
intellectual property, and the fact that these remarks are coming from
a company which happens to provide a suite of widely-deployed data
storage and processing tools, Davidson has painted the largest, most
obtrusive "kick me" sign on Oracle's back.

Because we all _know_ that when people of a Certain Ethical Mindset
get told to stop pushing the envelope because it's violating an EULA,
they _push the envelope harder_.

And if Oracle's products _were_ completely vulnerability-free, they
might be in a sane position to do so.  Unfortunately, they have a
chief security officer who believes that an EULA is protection enough,
and that strikes enough doubt into any reasonable individual that it's
impossible to assume Oracle have done security right at all.

Anyhow, that's enough of me rambling on.  If you've stumbled across
anything interesting, or you're keen to get involved, join the team
via the CSESoc website, or send in an
article---`beta@cse.unsw.edu.au`.  We'd love to hear from you, and
hey, your article will very likely end up in print.

Catch you next week!

\byline{Jashank~Jeremy}
