---
title: The News in Brief
---

\endmulticols\vfill\pagebreak

The News in Brief
=================

\multicols{2}

Beam Him Up
:    "A life is like a garden. Perfect moments can be had, but not
     preserved, except in memory."  
     ---Leonard Nimoy, 1931--2015.  Live long and prosper.

Net Neutrality Preserved
:    The United States FCC ruled last week that the Internet should
     rely on common carriers, meaning the ongoing war on net
     neutrality has ended with a resounding victory.

Terabit Wireless
:    Researchers at the University of Surrey in England have achieved
     speeds of 1 Tbps over 100 metres under lab conditions, as part of
     research into the fifth generation of ITU mobile communications
     suites.

Pebble Time
:    Another gorgeous smartwatch to be released by Pebble, going on
     Kickstarter for $159 and looking to ship in May.  Huge overhauls,
     but will it be enough to compete against the new players in the
     smartwatch arena: Google and Apple?

HTTP/2 Adoption In Browsers
:    After HTTP/2 was finalised just a few weeks ago, Mozilla have
     jumped right on the bandwagon, with version 36 of the Gecko web
     framework, which powers Firefox, officially supporting the
     standard.  Google are on it too, with the next versions of Chrome
     to migrate from the SPDY draft to HTTP/2.

On-The-Fly Flash to HTML5
:    In other Google news, all Flash advertising content is being
     converted to HTML5, to make it more accessible for mobile consumers.

Motorola Refreshes Budget Handset
:    The second generation Moto E was released last week, a
     no-nonsense, tidy little smartphone, running a clean Android, at
     a practical price-point---$150.  It's not a flagship phone by any
     means, but it's responsive and rugged, and leaves last year's
     model out to dry.

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\multicols{2}
