---
title: Calendar
---

\endmulticols
\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill

Upcoming Events
===============

\multicols{2}

every Monday
:    CSESoc's Weekly Barbecue\hfill\bcalSocial{}  
     _1--2p, Physics Lawn_

    Come on down to the Physics Lawn for your weekly dose of free
    barbecue!  Don't forget to pick up your copy of \csesocbeta, and
    make some new friends!

3 March
:    CompClub Social\hfill\bcalNews{}  
     _TBC; 2--3p, K17 Seminar Room_

    Do you want to teach Computing to the next generation of high
    school kids?  Join the CompClub Intro Meetup, where we'll be
    discussing plans for the upcoming semester and areas where you can
    help out.  We will also run a brief Intro to Programming
    preparation session after for those who are interested.
    Enthusiastic first and second years are encourage to join!

    For more details, head to  
    [`csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/compclub-social`](https://www.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/compclub-social/)

5 March
:    Cardboard Night\hfill\bcalSocial{}  
     _6--10p, K17 Seminar Room_

    For our first social event of 2015, we're going for a fan
    favourite---the Cardboard night!  Join us for card games, board
    games, drinks and pizza. Make some friends and reconnect with the
    old ones you haven't seen over the summer!

    $3 pizza and beer for Arc members, $5 for non-Arc members.

    For more details, head to  
    [`csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/cardboard-night-1`](https://csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/cardboard-night-1/)

9 March
:    Talk: Internships and Offers\hfill\bcalCareers{}  
     _2--3p, K17 Seminar Room_

    Are you in the process of applying for an intern or graduate
    position but have no idea what to do, or where to look?  Then this
    is the talk for you!

    Karla Burnett, on behalf of Stripe, will host a talk all things
    internship related:

    > As a recent CSE graduate, I know that internships and grad jobs
    > can be confusing.  A huge amount of knowledge is passed down as
    > folklore, about how to find companies, and make them want to
    > keep you around.  This talk will make this knowledge explicit:
    > I'll explain the things I wish I'd known years ago, before I
    > applied for my first internships.

    For more details, head to  
    \href{https://www.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/internships-and-offers-how-to-get-and-make-the-most-of-them/}{\texttt{csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/\\\hspace*{6ex}internships-and-offers-\\\hspace*{6ex}how-to-get-and-make-the-most-of-them}}

12 March
:    Installfest\hfill\bcalTech{}  
     _3--7p, location TBC_

	Having issues getting the right operating system installed on your
    computer?  Need some help with Linux and how to use it?

    Installfest is the place for you!  The CSESoc team will be
	available to solve your technical woes, so come along and learn
	stuff!

	$3 pizza for Arc members, $5 for non-Arc members.

    For more details, head to  
    [`csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/installfest`](https://csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/installfest/)

14 March
:    eth0 @ UNSW: Jane Street Hackathon\hfill\bcalTech{}  
     _9a--10p, K17 Seminar Room_

    eth0: a day-long programming contest. Form teams and hack together
    software to compete against others and the markets. The winning
    prize will be AU$`0x3ff` per person. There'll be lots of (free) food
    and drink available.

    Absolutely no knowledge of finance, nor OCaml, required. You can
    use any language, but we'll provide some helper libraries in a few
    common ones. The contest is entirely technical in nature and you
    won't need any visual design skills.

    For more details, head to  
    \href{https://www.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/eth0-unsw-jane-street-hackathon/}{\texttt{csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/\\\hspace*{6ex}eth0-unsw-jane-street-hackathon}}

16 March
:    Accenture Soft Skills Workshop\hfill\bcalCareers{}  
     _2--3p, K17 Seminar Room_

18 March
:    Jane Street Networking Event\hfill\bcalCareers{}  
     _5p, The White House_

    You are invited to a networking event with Jane Street on
    Wednesday, March 18 at 5:00pm at the Whitehouse (Fig Tree
    precinct, Gate 4, High Street, Kensington).

    There will be 3 representatives from Jane Street who will meet and
    greet with CSE students over food and drinks.

    For more details, head to  
    \href{https://www.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/jane-street-networking-event/}{\texttt{csesoc.unsw.edu.au/blog/\\\hspace*{6ex}jane-street-networking-event}}

20--22 March
:    First Year Camp\hfill\bcalSocial{}  
     _Wombaroo Adventure Centre_

    Hey, first years!  Want to get away from uni for a weekend to a
    tropical paradise?  Make plenty of new friends and share some
    awesome experiences?  Come along to CSESoc's Tropical-themed First
    Year Camp, from March 20th to 22nd.

    Sign up online at  
    [`csesoc.unsw.edu.au/first-year-camp`](https://www.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/first-year-camp/)

\vfill\pagebreak
