---
title: Upcoming Events
---

\endmulticols
\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill

Upcoming Events
===============

\multicols{2}

Now that you know what CSESoc is, come join us in some upcoming
events:

The CSESoc signature social event is our _weekly free BBQ_.  These run
throughout the semester, rain or shine.  We have a range of different food
options, so if you are a meatasaurus or a vegetarian, you can still have a
great time!  When do you start getting our free food?  The first BBQ will be
on Friday of O-Week from 12--1.30pm on the Physics Lawn---make sure you're
there!

On top of this plethora of social events, CSESoc also holds tech-based events
throughout the year to help you explore your interests outside of the
classroom.  These events range from workshops and seminars, to coding
competitions that are always fun to be a part of.

One of the first tech events of the year is the Linux Installfest, which will
be early in the semester.  If you would like to install Linux on your computer
and have questions, worries or reservations about the process, bring it to the
Installfest where experienced students can help you out.  Postgraduates and
undergraduates are all welcome!

Not only that, CSESoc also has activities and events to get you started in
\UNSW\ \CSE.  Be sure to check out Lab 0; it shows you how to access to, and
set up, your own \CSE\ account, as well as teach you some basic commands for
navigating the \CSE\ lab computers, and teach you some cool tricks like how to
play games on the \CSE\ network.  If you're a postgrad, you can do Lab 0 on
Wednesday 4--6pm during O-Week---just check out the venue on the O-Week events
calendar---which runs with the Postgraduate Welcome at the \KK17 Seminar Room.
Undergraduates don't need to worry---you'll be partaking in Lab 0 in your
first \comp1917 tutorial.

For more information, come by our O-Week stall, the Socs office---Room 306,
Level 3, \KK17---or visit the CSESoc website, __[csesoc.unsw.edu.au][csesoc]__.

[csesoc]: https://www.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/

\vfill\pagebreak
