
\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill\pagebreak

About Our Sponsors
==================

\multicols{2}

ARC UNSW
:    [`arc.unsw.edu.au`](http://www.arc.unsw.edu.au/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/arcunsw.eps}
\end{center}

Arc is your student organisation.  Our mission is to make your life at
Uni more interesting, more fun, more personally rewarding, and
ultimately more affordable.  We're here to provide everything you need
outside of the classroom.

UNSW Faculty of Engineering
:    [`eng.unsw.edu.au`](http://www.engineering.unsw.edu.au/)

The Faculty of Engineering at UNSW is recognised as the pre-eminent
Engineering faculty in Australia and offers the widest choice of
engineering courses in a wide range of specialisations.  Although it
has grown to include a broad range of disciplines, engineering remains
one of its largest and most important faculties.

CSE UNSW
:    [`cse.unsw.edu.au`](http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{../../sponsors/cseunsw.pdf}
\end{center}

CSE is now one of the largest Schools within the University, and one
of the largest of its kind in Australia.  The school's Development
Office was established in 2001 to promote the development of our
students beyond their academic studies.  It has always been a great
supporter of student societies, which is one of the reasons our
students enjoy a complete and fulfilling university life.

Accenture
:    [`accenture.com`](http://www.accenture.com/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/accenture.png}
\end{center}

Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and
outsourcing company, with more than 319,000 people serving clients in
more than 120 countries.  Combining unparalleled experience,
comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business
functions, and extensive research on the world's most successful
companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become
high-performance businesses and governments.

There's no limit to the technical or business solutions Accenture
deliver, the clients they work with, or the type of work that they
take on.  Accenture work with Australia's most innovative
organisations across all sectors, including banking, insurance,
healthcare, mining, retailers, communications, media, and governmental
agencies.

Atlassian
:    [`atlassian.com`](http://www.atlassian.com/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/atlassian.png}
\end{center}

Atlassian unlocks the potential in every team.  Our products help
teams collaborate, build software and serve their customers better.
Nearly 40,000 large and small organizations---including Citigroup,
eBay, Coca-Cola, Netflix and NASA---use Atlassian's tracking,
collaboration, communication, service management and development
products to work smarter and deliver quality results on time.  Learn
about products including JIRA, Confluence, HipChat, Bitbucket and
Stash at atlassian.com.

Freelancer
:    [`freelancer.com.au`](https://www.freelancer.com.au/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/freelancer.png}
\end{center}

Triple Webby award winning Freelancer.com is the largest freelancing
and crowdsourcing marketplace in the world.  Freelancer.com connects
over 10.4 million independent professionals globally, specialising in
nearly 600 fields.

Over 5 million projects have been posted to date, in areas as diverse
as website development, logo design, marketing, copywriting,
astrophysics, aerospace engineering and manufacturing.  Freelancer.com
is the marketplace where the world gets work done.

Google 
:    [`google.com/careers/students`](http://www.google.com/careers/students/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/google.png}
\end{center}

Google is and always will be an engineering company.  We hire
people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to
tackle some of technology's greatest challenges and make an
impact on millions, if not billions, of users.

At Google, engineers not only revolutionise search, they routinely
work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale
applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the
world.  From AdWords to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local,
Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement
after another.

Voted the top Graduate Employer by students in Australia, we're
looking for students to do cool things that matter.  Join us.  Visit
[`google.com/careers/students`](http://www.google.com/careers/students/)

Jane Street
:    [`janestreet.com`](https://www.janestreet.com/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/janestreet.png}
\end{center}

Jane Street is a proprietary trading firm that operates around the
clock and around the globe.  We bring a deep understanding of markets,
a scientific approach, and innovative technology to trade in the
world's highly competitive financial markets, focusing primarily on
equities and equity derivatives.  Founded in 2000, Jane Street employs
over 320 people in offices in New York, London and Hong Kong.

Microsoft
:    [`microsoft.com/university`](http://www.microsoft.com/university/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/microsoft.png}
\end{center}

Microsoft is organized into several major functions and disciplines to
deliver exceptional devices and services to billions of people and
millions of businesses worldwide.  Individual but connected, we work
in small teams to focus on a specific function or discipline.  Then
those teams collaborate with one another to ensure compatibility and
communication across our inventions.

What this means for you is depth and breadth of opportunity.  We offer
a variety of jobs, spanning our many technologies in offices around
the world.  Come to Microsoft to meet and learn from interesting and
talented people, and to make a real impact on the world.

Palantir
:    [`palantir.com`](http://www.palantir.com/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/palantir.png}
\end{center}

Palantir is a software company that builds and sells data fusion
platforms and applications for solving large, complex data problems.
Our work involves building the infrastructure to fuse together
disparate data sources into a single, coherent, interactive,
human-understandable picture of a real world problem.

We solve big data's 'last mile' problem with engineering that is equal
parts large-scale data processing and high-quality user interface.
Our systems are broadly deployed in government, financial, and
commercial markets.  Additionally, our philanthropy team donates our
software and expertise to help non-profits work through their
challenging data analysis about pressing problems facing our world
today.

Facebook
:    [`facebook.com/careers`](https://www.facebook.com/careers/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/facebook.png}
\end{center}

Facebook was built to help people connect and share, and over the last
decade our tools have played a critical part in changing how people
around the world communicate with one another.  With over a billion
people using the service and more than fifty offices around the globe,
a career at Facebook offers countless ways to make an impact in a fast
growing organization.

Want to build new features and improve existing products that more
than a billion people around the world use?  Interested in working on
highly impactful technical challenges to help the world be more open
and connected?  Want to solve unique, large-scale, highly complex
technical problems?

Our development cycle is extremely fast, and we've built tools to keep
it that way.  It's common to write code and have it running live on
the site just a few days later.  We push code to the site everyday and
have small teams that build products that are touched by millions of
people around the world.

Optiver
:    [`optiver.com`](http://www.optiver.com/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/optiver.png}
\end{center}

At Optiver, we like to think we're different.  We're a leading global
independent market maker dealing mainly in derivatives, shares and
bonds.  Our Trading and IT teams work together as the right and left
hand of the business and it is this level of integration that keeps
our Traders at the top of their game.  Our speed to the market is
crucial to our success and this is why we concentrate on sourcing the
most advanced software, the fastest applications and up to date
technology.

We value the talents of our team and foster a collaborative and
innovative working environment which nurtures brilliant minds.  This
is why we've been listed in BRW's Best Place to Work List, coming in
at #1 in 2013 and #2 in 2014.

ResMed
:    [`resmed.com.au`](http://www.resmed.com.au/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/resmed.jpg}
\end{center}

We are the global leader in the design, manufacture and distribution
of innovative products for the diagnosis, treatment and management of
respiratory disorders.  We have experienced sustained and significant
growth since inception.  One of the principal contributors to this
growth is innovation reflected in a commitment to producing
world-class product lines.

Woolworths IT
:    [`wowgrads.com.au`](http://www.wowgrads.com.au/)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\linewidth]{../../sponsors/woolworths.png}
\end{center}

Technology is a game changer for any retail organisation.
Woolworths is step-changing the way IT supports the business to
meet the customers' changing needs.  We are at the forefront of
innovation and we love making things better through technology.
Woolworths IT has a large portfolio of over 300 programs /
projects underway and a team of 1000+ across IT.

Our Google and Ebay projects are just two to mention that have shaped
how we deliver great experience through technology to our customers
and people.  Opportunities are wide and diverse, ranging from but not
limited to; Analysis, Program Management, Infrastructure, User
Experience, Web / App Development and design.

Dare to Lead.  [`www.wowgrads.com.au`](http://www.wowgrads.com.au/)
