---
title: About CSESoc
---

\section{CSESoc: The Cool Nerd Hangout}

CSESoc is the principal representative body for computing students on
campus---all CSE Students are automatically members.  We're here to
grow the school community and provide opportunities for all computing
students to have fun and meet other students outside of your studies.
To this end, we run weekly social and technical events throughout the
year (and nearly all are free to attend!)

Our social events are an opportunity for you to meet other CSE
students, and take a break from studying.  In the past we've run:

 - our famous free weekly BBQ,
 - Trivia Nights,
 - Poker Nights,
 - Movie Nights,
 - LAN Parties,
 - Cocktail Parties,

and more!

We announce these events by email, so make sure you sign up to the
`soc-announce` mailing list during Lab 0 to receive them!  Our events
are open to all students; although, if you're not a CSE student---if
you're not enrolled in a CSE degree or course---but want the full
benefits of membership, ask the executives about becoming an associate
member.

There are plenty of opportunities to get involved with running events
and activities: we're always looking for volunteers, and it's a great
way to develop your leadership and teamwork skills.

CSESoc's teams, all of which you can volunteer for, are:

Beta
: produces the publication you're reading now,

Publicity
: promotes our events by creating posters and running our social
  media,

Dev
: runs projects and code jams and maintains CSESoc's website and
  servers,

Social
: organises and runs all of our social events

Tech
: organises and runs the society’s technical talks and workshops

Comp Club
: provides a head start for high school students to explore computing
  and eat pizza.

Keep an eye out for our First Year Camp at the end of Week 3---we
encourage all new students (postgraduate coursework/research and
undergraduate alike) to attend.  First Year Camp is the best way to
meet people in your courses (great for groupwork!) and the rest of
CSE.

Most of all, we're here to help you settle in and have a great time at
UNSW!  We look forward to meeting all of you and helping you get the
most out of this year!

\byline{Evelyn Chensen}
\byline{Pierre Estephan}
\byline{Vincent Wong}
\byline{Angelo Tamayo}
