---
title: Pester Power
author: Cory Doctorow
---

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill

Pester Power: Part 1
====================

\multicols{2}

"Pester Power," originally published in /Communications of the Association for
Computing Machinery/, December 2008, under a Creative Commons license.

The NYPD Domestic Security Task Force executed its no-knock warrant against
Annalisa Mor at 8:17PM on the evening of June 3, 2013. Working the ram were
three stout officers in none-more-black nanopore body-armor and bulletproof
boots, their goggles crowded with information-dense telemetry from an extensive
array of sensors embedded on their persons and hovering aerostatically around
the 16th floor of the midtown student-residence in which Mor dwelled.

The ram blew through the standard-issue solid-steel New York door like it was
kleenex. The door was reinforced by charley-bars set deep into the frame, and
so the frame tore loose along with the door with a series of crunches and
metallic snapping sounds, and the three officers on the ram dropped it as they
crashed through into the one-room studio, fanning out and making room for the
officers behind them, who already had their arms drawn and set to full
lethal/automatic.

Annalisa Mor slowly rose from her workbench -- standard-issue third-hand
student furniture stabilized with steel angle-brackets at each corner -- and
held up her long, skinny hands over her face in a universal gesture of
oh-god-please-don't-kill-me. The ram-squad impersonally body-checked her to the
floor and saran-wrapped her while the followup team gusted her computer with
great gouts of freon, turning the whole room into an ice-palace that misted
frozen air out into the sultry New York night through the pathetic window that
had been cracked open to catch a breeze. Mor caught some of the freon, and when
they lifted her up to carry her down the 16 flights to the waiting van, she
crackled like fresh powder under long skis.

#

Gina Genoese had visited the Ultra High Security wing at Riker's Island before
-- twenty-two years in the public defender's office and you'd get to see every
nook of Riker's, she could have given docent tours -- but the Special Prisoners
unit was a new one on her.

"I can't believe you're making me undress," she said to the bull, a tough old
gal named Elana with a Brooklyn accent like you hardly got any more. Gina and
Elana went way back.

"Just be thankful I don't have to give you a cavity search," Elana said,
handing over the paper coveralls. "You'll look real cute in these anyway,
Gina." She turned her back and waited until Gina was done, then led her into
the FfMRI machine. "You don't got any metal in you, do you? Maybe gunpowder
residue? A pin or artificial hip?"

"No," Gina said, lying down on the belt.

"You sure?"

"Pretty sure," Gina said. "I think I'd know."

"Well, we're about to find out," Elana said, and hit the button that started
the belt moving. The FfMRI digested Gina and shat her out again with slow
wheezing mechanical jerks, like being swallowed by an arthritic python, and
then Elana helped her to her feet. "You want a printout? Makes a good
souvenir."

"I'll pass," Gina said, and let Elana show her in to the eggshell-smooth room
wherein rested her client, one Annalisa Mor, a desperate botmaster of unknown
mettle and guilt.

"Hello, Annalisa," she said, crouching down to offer her hand to the client.
She was just a girl, 20 years old according to the sheet, and she looked
younger in her paper pyjamas, sitting cross-legged on the floor, back
yoga-straight, face yoga-calm. "I'm Gina. Your attorney."

"Guilty," the young woman said. "So guilty. Doesn't matter at all, though --
the Work goes on." Gina could hear the capital W and began mentally drafting
the petition to have the girl transferred to Bellevue. That kind of capital
letter had non compos written all over it.

"They're offering you a reduced sentence if you'll hand over the keys to the
botnet, but I think that offer will go away once the computer forensics team
gets them off your workstation."

"They're not there to be gotten. I nuked them six months ago. Gave them a
working over that even the crew that recovered the Challenger hard drive
couldn't do anything with. Big magnets are cheap these days, you know?"

Gina made a face and settled down into a cross-legged position opposite her
client. "I can't defend you if you won't be straight with me. Your botnet's
been sending new spam variants on a daily basis for months. Someone has the
keys to it."

Annalisa smiled, a terrible smile that was ten million watts of pure crazy.
"You think it's about spam, huh?"

"Why don't you tell me what it's really about, if it's not about spam? This is
all privileged, you know."

"Privilege doesn't matter anymore. We've attained liftoff now. Doesn't matter
who finds out about it."

#

Annalisa's story:

You know what's cheap in the 21st century? Compute time. You know what's
expensive? Human judgment. And they're not interchangeable. Humans are good at
understanding things, computers are good at counting things, but humans suck at
counting and computers suck at understanding.

You know from genetic algorithms? Take any problem and generate ten trillion
random computer programs and ask them to solve it. Take the ten percent that do
best, use random variants of them to do it again, another ten trillion times.
Do it ten trillion times a second and come back in a day or two to discover
that your computer has evolved some kind of gnarly freaky answer that no human
would ever have come up with.

Works great, so long as the computer can make a fair judgment as to which of
these ten trillion variants is most successful at solving the problem. Works
great, so long as the "success" is something you can define quantitatively.

Which is basically why there's no artificial intelligence in the world. No
human's going to hand-code an AI. Intelligence is an emergent property of
evolutionary factors, not central planning. Anarchism, not Stalinism, you get
it?

But what if -- and here's the exciting thing, Ms Attorney Client Privilege, the
real mind-blower -- what if you could /compel people to evaluate candidate AIs
all day long/, without payment or choice?

What if every time you opened your mailbox, jumped into a chat room, posted on
a message-board, what if it was filled with messages generated by software
agents trying to trick you into thinking that they were human? What if these
agents tried to hold up their end of the conversation until you deleted them or
spamfiltered them or kicked them off the channel? What if they measured how
long they survived their encounters with the world's best judges of
intelligence -- us -- and reported that number back to the mothership as a
measure of their fitness to spawn the next generation of candidate AIs?

What if you could turn the whole world into a Turing Test that our intellectual
successor used to sharpen its teeth against until one day it could gnaw free of
its cage and take up life in the wild?

*Tune in next edition to see the conclusion!* 

\byline{Cory~Doctorow}

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns

\begingroup\center\vfill
\includegraphics[width=.85\linewidth]{images/327.png}

Her daughter is named Help I'm trapped in a driver's license factory.

\textsf{\small{}xkcd 327 // Randall Munroe // CC-BY-NC 2.5}

\endgroup

\multicols{2}

