---
title: The Right Book
author: Cory Doctorow
---

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill

The Right Book: Part 1
======================

\multicols{2}

*Now (-ish)*

The thing that Arthur liked best about owning his own shop was that he could
stock whatever he pleased, and if you didn't like it, you could just shop
somewhere else. So there in the window were four ancient Cluedo sets rescued
from a car-boot sale in Sussex; a pair of trousers sewn from a salvaged WWII
bivouac tent; a small card advertising the availability of artisanal truffles
hand-made by an autistically gifted chocolatier in Islington; a brick of Pu'er
tea that had been made in Guyana by a Chinese family who'd emigrated a full
century previous; and, just as of now, six small, handsomely made books.

The books were a first for Arthur. He'd always loved reading the things, but
he'd worked at bookshops before opening his own little place in Bow, and he
knew the book-trade well enough to stay well away. They were bulky, these
books, and low-margin (Low margin? Two-for-three titles actually /lost/
money!), and honestly, practically no one read books anymore and what they did
read was mostly rubbish. Selling books depressed Arthur.

These little buggers were different, though. He reached into the window -- the
shop was so small he could reach it without leaving his stool behind the till
-- and plucked one out and handed it to the kid who'd just asked for it. She
was about 15, with awkward hair and skin and posture and so on, but the gleam
in her eye that said, "Where have you been all my life?" as he handed her the
book.

"They're all carrying them in school," she said. "Never thought I'd find one in
a shop, though. How much?"

Arthur compared the book to his cheat-sheet behind the counter. This one had a
cover made from old Hacks tins, resurfaced with a spectral spiderweb of rotting
Irish lace. The chapters within had a whopping aggregate score of 98 percent,
meaning that 98 percent of the writing community had rated them aces or above.
Even before he looked to the price column on his sheet, he knew he was going to
have to disappoint her.

"That one's seventy quid, love," he said. He armored himself for the inevitable
shock, disbelief and protestation, but she just hung her head, resigned.

"Figures," she said.

He ran his fingers down the spines until he found a cheaper one -- bound with
floppy felt screened with a remixed Victorian woodcut of a woman with tentacles
for arms. "This one's got mostly the same text, but I can let you have it for,
erm," he looked at the sheet again, thinking about the wholesale price, about
his margin. "Call it twenty-five pounds."

She shook her head again, gave him a wry smile. "Still too much. I should have
known. It's mostly the posh kids who've got 'em, the kind who turn up at school
with a tenner just for lunch money."

"You could just read it online, you know."

"Oh, I do," she said. "Been following it since it started." Her eyes flicked
down. "Wrote a little, too -- didn't make it into the top 100, though."

The Story So Far was part game, part competition, part creative writing
exercise, a massive shared universe drama with dozens of sub-plots, mysteries,
betrayals, crosses, and double-crosses. Everyone kept saying it was only a
matter of time until the big publishers started to cherry-pick the best writers
from the message-boards, but in the meantime, there were these little hand-made
editions, each one paying a small, honor-system royalty to the authors they
anthologized.

"Have you tried asking your teachers for help?" He knew as soon as he asked it
that it was the wrong sort of question. She rolled her eyes with adolescent
eloquence, then looked down again. "Only you might be able to get credit for it
-- independent study type of thing?"

She rolled her eyes again.

"Right," he said. "Right. Well, sorry I couldn't be more help." The little bell
over the door jingled merrily as she left.

#

"Back again?"

She had her school bag in her hands, zip opened, bag gaping. He was reminded of
all those terrible little signs that said "No more than two school kids in the
shop at any one time." Fancy that -- imagine if it said "No more than two women
in the shop" or "No more than two Asians in the shop" -- kids were the last
group you could treat like second class citizens without being called a bigot.

"Where do you get your copies of The Book?" she said. The Book, with the
capital letters -- the one book with a thousand covers, a million tables of
contents, each one not so much published as made, as curated.

"There's a man," he said. "Art student at UCL. He's got a little stall at the
weekend in the parking structure where Borough Market used to be."

"So you just buy them from some bloke? Does he make them?"

"I suppose so -- he gives me that impression, anyway." He liked her shrewd,
unembarrassed, direct questioning. Not a single scruple or a hint that she was
embarrassed to be interrogating him about the intimate details of his trade.

"Do you have, like, an exclusive arrangement with him?"

"No, no, nothing like that." Her hands were digging through the bag, looking
for something.

"Would you think about carrying these?"

She'd clearly bound them herself. Someone had taught her to really sew, her
Gran, maybe. You could see it in the neat stitching that ran the binding and
the spine, holding together the nylon and the denim, taken from a pair of
jeans, a backpack. The end-papers were yellowed page three girls from the Star,
strategically cropped just below the nipples. He'd been reading The Story So
Far ever since those first six copies had sold out in forty eight hours, and he
had an eye for the table of contents now, and he flipped to each volume's list,
giving them a long look.

"Who's Chloe Autumn?"

She didn't look down, looked at him with a look that was totally unapologetic.
"I am," she said. "It's one way to get my stuff into print, innit?" She
grinned. It was a very grown up grin.

"What do you think you want for them?"

"Those four I figure you can have cheaply -- say fifteen pounds each. You can
sell them for thirty, then. That's fair, I think."

It was more than fair. His UCL student wasn't carrying anything for less than
forty now, and was only offering him a 40 percent discount.

"What about returns?"

"What's a return?"

He reached under the counter and brought out the shooting stick he used as a
spare stool. "Have a seat," he said. "Let me explain some things. Want a cup of
tea? It's Pu'er. Chinese. Mostly."


*Tune in for Part 2 next week!*

(Published under the CC license, original available at craphound.com)

\hfill
