
\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill\pagebreak
\begin{center}
\includegraphics[trim=0mm 350mm 0mm 300mm, clip, width=\linewidth]{images/fyc-washup-01.jpg}
\end{center}\vspace{-1em}

First Year Camp
===============

\begin{center}
{\large\it A blow-by-blow account of CSESoc's First Year Camp}
\end{center}
\multicols{2}

Friday
------

So... it was time for First Year Camp.  I could feel the excitement
buzzing in the air as we waited around (in the rain, no less) to get
on the busses to Camp Wombaroo.  The camp was something that everyone
was looking forward too, and we were all eager to get started.

When we arrived, we sat in the hall and got to meet our camp leaders,
who all graced us with an "interesting" fact about themselves---this
was where we first learned about Jake and Nick's undying love,
something which was to become a theme over the next few days.  We then
got started with the name games where, to be honest, I promptly forgot
everyone's names within five minutes.  The game of murder was
explained, and we were handed a slip containing the name of our
victim, as well as the required location and murder weapon.  As we
slowly shuffled into the dining room, I started to feel on edge: I
take murder very seriously.

After a delicious dinner, and getting our incredibly awesome camp
T-shirts, we got right into the trivia game.  It was a load of fun
(and the free drinks didn't hurt), especially the Chinese Charades
round (where Harris' apology was duly noted, although that didn't stop
us making fun of him for the rest of camp).  The sports round was
totally biased in Jake's favour (who else in CSE would care
about... sport?) but my team, Table 6 (we were originally designated
table number seven) did really well, coming in second.  We were the
best at the tech round, and surprisingly, geography.

Once the trivia was over, the night wound down to the majority of us
playing card and board games (mostly supplied by Matt, who earned his
title of Card Shark).  For me, these game sessions throughout the
weekend were where I really made new friends.  I was really enjoying my
night, and was a little disappointed when we were told that it was
time to go to bed; but, admittedly, it was past 2 am, and I've heard
rumours that the camp leaders aren't actually all robots and they do
need to sleep too (I'm still not sure though).

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[trim=0mm 300mm 0mm 300mm, clip, width=\linewidth]{images/fyc-washup-04.jpg}
\end{center}

Saturday
--------

We woke up at some ungodly hour---like, 8---and were shepherded to the
hall again (after breakfast, where Harris was literally dragged
outside onto a grassy area so Charlotte could stab him with an
umbrella) for an activity mysteriously titled in our guide "Newspaper
Fun!"  (Seriously, who reads actual newspapers now in this digital
age?)  Admittedly, it was quite fun, and very hilarious, as we tried
to create a shelter using only newspapers.  There were also two side
challenges---to make a funny story by cutting out words from
headlines, and to place as many pictures of Tony Abbott and/or cats on
the outside of the shelter as possible for bonus points.

Whilst there were many better (and longer) stories than ours (which
simply read "Porn Stars Really Care About Your Child's Education"),
our team won overall, fitting many (8?) people inside and not really
standing up to the tests provided by the leaders.  I wouldn't have
used it as an actual shelter, but at least we managed to carry it
outside and fit people under it before it broke apart. (Well, maybe we
did pilfer some extra poles when the team next to us' shelter
collapsed.)

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[trim=0mm 175mm 0mm 175mm, clip, width=\linewidth]{images/fyc-washup-05.jpg}
\end{center}

We had an amazing lunch of burgers, where I noticed my target (for
murder) had disappeared, and went searching for her in her cabin (I'm
not creepy, but I had to kill her in a cabin).  I (stupidly) wasn't
worried about my own safety, as some (not so subtle) reconning had
lead me to believe I'd be killed outside a bathroom (rookie mistake).
When I got to her cabin and realised she wasn't there, I decided to go
up to my room to put away the water bottles that I'd been carrying
around all day in preparation.  At this point, some random guy
(seriously, I still can't remember his name) burst open the door, an
umbrella outstretched like a sword and came charging at me (okay maybe
he simply walked in the door and tapped me with the umbrella (I
totally did not jump and curse), but it sounded more dramatic).  I
hadn't even really lasted a day, and yet I was vanquished – the guy
who killed me ended up coming second overall in the competition.

After the meal, we were deceitfully (thanks Steven) split up into
groups of about ten for the scavenger hunt.  Each group was given a
pineapple (we named ours Geoffrey, and managed to lose him twice
throughout the afternoon), and a bunch of challenges to complete
(during which I failed miserably), some involving physical skill
(again, why? This is CSE) and others mental acuity (also handcuffs and
blindfolds).

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[trim=0mm 175mm 0mm 175mm, clip, width=\linewidth]{images/fyc-washup-77.jpg}
\end{center}

My team did quite well, although we somehow forgot that blindfolded
people do know what a hoop looks like and know how step around it if
we tell them it's right in front of them (and someone lost their
paperclip).  We were, however, awesome at thong flipping, and our
breaking of the watermelon for the watermelon eating challenge looked
awesome (even if we lost most of the watermelon to the ground).

After we finally got back to the end, Steven killed Geoffrey (the
pineapple), and told us to create something from his innards, as well
as use a single sheet of paper to explain why our team should win.
Whilst one half of the team decorated our pineapple's guts, I helped
transcribe some (pretty terrible tbh) song parodies about the death of
our dear friend the pineapple.

Once we were done, we got back to playing some games (Cards against
Humanity FTW) until it was time for the pineapples to be showcased.
There were some great displays, (including a "life-size" replica of
Jake's penis) and some even greater speeches (thanks Harris), but in
the end a winner was decided, to be announced the next day at the
closing ceremony (seriously, what a letdown).

Finally, it was dinner time, which lead up to the most important event
of the camp – the party.  We got kicked out for an hour so they could
set up, and the three people who'd bothered coming up with costumes
(the theme was tropical) got changed whilst we played Egyptian Snap.

The party itself though, was fantastic.  Admittedly, I'm not a fan of
loud music and party lights, but the atmosphere was great (again, free
alcohol helped).  A few of us who weren't really into the dancing and
loud music thing decided to go outside and play board games (again,
thanks Matt), where I was thoroughly beaten (by my own mistakes) in
Robo Rally (okay, maybe I rage-quit halfway through because it's too
hard to play when everyone else is sober).  At some point, a large
portion of the camp ended up wandering outside to enjoy the fresh air
(and relative quiet), so I also managed to meet someone who's doing
the same degree as me (Biomedical and Computer Engineering, there's
three of us that I'm aware of), and totally forget his name the next
morning (seriously dude, add me on Facebook or something).  At
midnight, everyone was kicked out of the party, but a few of us were
told of a secret room where we could go and play our games of CaH and
Mafia (without the leaders having to watch us, meaning they could go
sleep).  I played CaH, which was really awesome – we played for so
long that we literally ran out of white cards.  By this point it was
3:30, so it was mutually decided that it was time to go to bed.

Sunday
------

By this breakfast, pretty much everyone was exhausted, walking around
like zombies.  Before we could leave though, there was the award
ceremony.  Everyone had voted during breakfast on various awards such
as Biggest Fail and Secret Stripper---I was quite upset we couldn't
nominate leaders, Oliver Tan had my vote for both categories of Best
Costume.  After another hour of card games, the winners of these, and
the numerous group challenges that had occurred throughout the camp,
were announced.  You could hear the tiredness of everyone in the room
as they laughed at the ironic prizes, al just secretly waiting to get
home and sleep.

We waited for the bus in groups (holding hands as directed, I think it
gave Steven some kind of perverse pleasure) and my group shuffled to
the back where we lead a rowdy game of Mafia.  I died both times
(although the second time I lasted to the final five, and they killed
me off even after I revealed that I was the doctor), but it kept me
awake and (somewhat) alert, enough that I wasn't nodding off.

Finally, we arrived back at uni.  We were all sad to say goodbye (even
though we knew we'd see each other in class the next day, but it
wasn't the same).  This camp is definitely going to be one of the
highlights of my uni experience – I made many friends and had a lot of
fun.

Whilst I joke about them a lot, none of this would have been possible
without Steven and Jake, so on behalf of everyone who attended, thanks
so much for an amazing weekend! To the rest of the camp team, you guys
were fantastic and camp wouldn't have been the same without you.

\byline{Alex~Linker}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[trim=0mm 100mm 0mm 200mm, clip, width=\linewidth]{images/fyc-washup-99.jpg}
\end{center}
