---
title: On Data Retention
---

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns

On Data Retention
=================

\begin{center}{\large\it
  In which we indefinitely retain Jake's frustrations about
  new data retention legislation.}  \end{center}

\multicols{2}

_Dear Mr. Turnbull,_

My name is Jake Bloom and I am a 19 year old University Student at
UNSW and Software Developer from Rose Bay.  I intend to vote for you
in the 2016 Federal Election and also for your colleague Gabrielle
Upton in the coming NSW State Election.  I am not involved in any
political clubs or societies at uni, and I cast my vote as such
because I believe that yourself and Ms Upton are the best candidates
to represent my local electorate.

I don't typically get involved in politics, however the current debate
about mandatory data retention laws, and Labor's new position on the
laws have me very concerned about my future, and what kind of society
I will be raising my children in.

I believe that these laws are a "knee-jerk" reaction to the increase
in global terrorist activity and Australian terrorist activity seen in
2014, and while action is needed to ensure we can live happily in a
safe and peaceful society, the metadata laws seem as though they will
be ineffectual, and even worse, their full impacts are poorly
understood by members of government who did not have the opportunity
to learn about the framework of the Internet during the years they
were studying, as the Internet was still in it's infancy in those
days.

Firstly, I believe that these laws will be ineffective as those who
will be using the Internet to conduct terrorist activities will be
using a Virtual Private Network (VPN).  A VPN works by encrypting a
request made by a computer, so that Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
are unable to detect and alter these requests on their way to their
destination.  VPNs are widely used by large corporations, such as
banks, to enable employees to work from home without fear of
confidential information being intercepted by malicious attackers.  It
is also how travellers to countries such as China and Iran are able to
access social media websites that are censored in those countries.
VPNs require little to no technical knowledge to set up and implement,
and the most basic of Google searches will give instructions on how to
set one up, allowing any user to circumnavigate these laws.

Additionally, the vast majority of online criminal and terrorist
activity takes place on what is called the "dark web".  The dark web
is accessed by using a privacy tool called Tor, which sends an
Internet request from a client to a server via a long and convoluted
route, encapsulating requests within requests until it becomes very
difficult to track.  Tor originally was, and still is, funded by the
US government as a way to mask their military communications.

The University of Arizona's Artificial Intelligence Lab has spent
eight years researching terrorist activity on the deep web, and has
been published in a number of articles on topics such as bioterrorism
and identifying anonymous users.  However, even the briefest of
glances reveals how much data retention and analysis takes place in
order to make small progress in these areas, and this is retention and
analysis that ISPs will be reluctant to undertake.

Which brings me to the second half of my argument, which involves the
ISPs themselves.  Under the proposed laws, ISPs will be required to
store extra data---they already store lots of data, of course, that
assists them with billing, service provision and also, perhaps, some
data that will help them identify trends in their business.  However
it's most likely that they do not already store as much data as the
laws stipulate they must.

This means that ISPs will have to buy more servers, install them, pay
for their maintenance and design a way to intercept requests coming
from their customers and store them in these databases.  Obviously,
this will cost a large amount of money, which will be passed onto the
consumers, who are already paying high costs for one of the slowest
connection speeds in the developed world.

In five to ten years time, the infrastructure of the Internet in
Australia will become just as important as our road and rail
infrastructure, and these laws will raise the cost of a person's
access to this infrastructure and weaken the network itself.

The final point I wanted to make is about the security of Australian's
metadata.  It's well known in cyber security circles that Telstra
stored their password database unencrypted until a few years ago.
This meant that any breach of security at Telstra would put every
Australian's data at risk, as many people will reuse that password for
things like their bank accounts, Facebook accounts and more.

What these proposed laws will do is announce that ISPs are carrying
plenty of personal data about many Australians.  While my friends in
the cyber security community and I act in good faith and would never
attempt to compromise this information, somebody, whether in Australia
or overseas, will take this data retention as as a challenge of sorts.
It would not at all be surprising if an ISP's server was attacked, and
everyday Australians have their personal information leaked for anyone
to see.

I hope that I've raised a few points that you will consider when you
next consider these laws and which way you will vote on them.  However
failing that, by publishing this article in Beta, I hope that I become
considered a journalist, so you'll need a warrant to find me.

Kind Regards,

\byline{Jake~Bloom}
