\includegraphics[trim=0mm 50mm 0mm 80mm, clip, width=1\linewidth]{images/create-1.jpg}

CREATE UNSW
===========

Founded in October 2012, \textsc{create} is a student-led organization
and maker club based at UNSW Australia.

\textsc{create} aims to provide an opportunity for people to learn
practical skills in engineering, invention and design, and collaborate
on ideas and projects. The club seeks to foster an environment where
anyone, regardless of their background (technical or otherwise), is
inspired and able to turn ideas into designs, prototypes and
products. We are firm believers in collective knowledge, learning and
cooperation as an effective way to expand people's horizons, and
accomplish their ideas in the technical sphere.

\textsc{create}'s activities include presenting workshops on Arduino
microcontrollers, \textsc{cad} modelling, and \textsc{uav}
development.  \textsc{create} run two weekly hackerspaces: one at
\UNSW's Art & Design campus, and one at the new Michael Crouch
Innovation Centre on Kensington campus.  The club also enter teams in
competitions, and source robotic and electrical components in bulk for
students in weekly sales during semester.

Currently, \textsc{create} has a membership of over 1500 students. The
club was awarded Arc Club of the Year in 2013. In 2015, three of the
club's founding members (Nathan Adler, Sam Cassisi and Austin Kong)
were recognized by the \UNSW\ Faculty of Engineering with Student
Service Awards for their contributions to the UNSW community through
\textsc{create}.

\textsc{create}'s latest completed project is an interactive,
large-scale robotic Pacman game that was shown at Vivid Ideas 2015,
Museum of Contemporary Arts and Sydney Mini Maker Faire. We also have
several ongoing projects available for students to participate on,
such as the Outback \textsc{uav} Challenge, an Unmanned Ground Vehicle
and a 1 metre cubed 3D printer.

\byline{Yunzhen~Zhang}
