---
title: CSE Revue
author: Nevin Lazarus
---

\endmulticols\pagebreak
\begin{center}
\includegraphics[trim=20mm 120mm 0mm 40mm, clip, width=\linewidth]{images/beta101-revue.png}
\end{center}\vspace{-1.5em}

CSE Revue
=========

\begin{center}\vspace{-1ex}
{\large\it Sketch comedy, dance, music, tech, and a whole lot of fun!}
\end{center}
\multicols{2}

Whether you're a new student wondering what there is to do at Uni
outside of class, or an old soul looking for something different to
experience---never fear, CSE Revue is here for you!  CSE Revue is a
live sketch comedy show, entirely created, produced and performed by
students.  The show this year runs from 6--9 October, but putting it
together is an ongoing process throughout the year.

Getting involved with CSE Revue is an opportunity to share your
talents and discover ones you didn't know you had.  You'll learn new
skills, make lots of new friends, and above all, have an amazing time!

The society has a wide variety of teams to get involved in.  There is
the Cast, for those who are interested in acting, singing, dancing, or
just being on stage.  No experience is necessary: we'll teach you
everything!

For those with musical inclinations, the show has a live Band.  The
Tech team make the show happen from backstage by managing the stage,
lighting and sound.  They also build the set and make all the props.
The Costumes & Makeup team ensures that the actors look awesome on
show nights.

Of course, there wouldn't be a show without content.  Head on over to
the Scripts team, bring your creativity and try your hand at writing.
If you're interested in filming and special effects, the VFX team
shoots, and makes videos.  For the visually artistic there is the
Design and Publications team which create the cool looking posters and
merchandise.

All the teams vary in terms of time commitment.  Cast and Tech teams
require the greatest commitment.  Other teams are less involved and
become more active at different times of the year.

If you're looking for something more casual and fun, try one of these
teams: the Social team organises all the fun events throughout the
year. The Wellbeing team is all about food; they make sure the cast
and crew are fed during show---a very important task, as you can
imagine! The Front of House team take care of the audience on show
nights. The Promotions team work on getting the word out and marketing
the show on campus. Last but not least, for those who want to apply
their coding skills, the Webmin team is responsible for running the
society website servers.

You are welcome to join multiple teams depending on your interests. No
experience is required: we're looking for people with enthusiasm and
dedication!

CSE Revue is open to students from all faculties. Get involved in a
fantastic show and experience. To find out more, visit our website at
[`www.cserevue.org.au`](http://www.cserevue.org.au/) or watch previous
shows at
[`youtube.com/user/cserevue`](https://youtube.com/user/cserevue)

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill\multicols{2}

\includegraphics[trim=0mm 0mm 0mm 20mm, clip, width=1\linewidth]{images/beta101-revue-planes.png}

\includegraphics[trim=0mm 0mm 0mm 0mm, clip, width=1\linewidth]{images/beta101-revue-supers.png}
