\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns

The News
========

\multicols{2}

__Windows collateral.__ Several serious complaints about Windows 10
have sprung up, despite the product's strong launch this
month. Electronic Frontiers Australia were forced to speak up on
behalf of Cook Islands residents, after frequent and mandatory
software updates caused massive data bills. Meanwhile, the OS seems to
send daily dossiers of internet and app usage to parents by default,
potentially outing the world's youth without their knowledge or
consent. In Russia, a prominent politician is calling for Windows 10
to be banned from government use, concerned about ambiguous data
collection and black-box updates. Sources suggest Redmond's
'intentions' were 'good,' or something.

__Dallas DVD Buyers Club.__ Things seemed dire in April, when the
Federal Court ordered ISPs to hand torrenting customer details over to
Dallas Buyers Club LLC. A subsequent ruling from Justice Nye Perram
this week allows the troll gang to collect only the cost of a copy of
the film, plus a small share of court expenses. The Court sought a
$600,000 bond to enforce these terms, protecting users from
speculative invoicing. Some are concerned that the ruling will be
cited down the track, in the application of Australia's new
site-blocking laws.

__Twitter cuts off transparency orgs.__ Organisations like Sunlight
Foundation and the Open State Foundation, who specialise in archiving
the deleted tweets of the world's politicians, have had their access
to Twitter's firehose APIs cut off. Twitter, who still grant
advertising partners access to the deleted tweets of all users, told
the OSF that "deleting a tweet is an expression of the user's voice."

__The right to be repeatedly forgotten.__ The EU's "right to be
forgotten" judgement is proving difficult for Google. A ruling in 2014
ordered the removal of listings containing personal data when an
affected individual so demands. This week, the Information
Commissioner's Office in the UK has ordered the delisting of articles
reporting on the original verdict, since they mention the
complainant. This may devolve into a bottomless pit of manual
curation.

__Ashley Madison breach aftermath.__ In your fortnightly reminder not
to trust computers or people who like computers with anything at all,
hackers have released the full databases of seedy online dating
destination Ashley Madison. Thus far, the release has led to class
action lawsuits, large-scale cybercriminal cyberhunting, automated
extortion scams, and reports of casualties. The motives behind the
release are not entirely clear, with no ransom demanded.

__DirectX 12 ends NVidia supremacy.__ Early benchmarks using DirectX
12 seem to show older AMD cards keeping pace with NVidia's most
expensive offerings. This is very good news for GPU consumers.

__NBN cost blowout.__ The Coalition's mangled idea of a National
Broadband Network is proving much more expensive than they had
intended. It will still deliver minimal service improvement.

\byline{Timothy~Humphries}
