---
title: Pester Power
author: Cory Doctorow
---

Pester Power: Part 2
====================

"Pester Power," originally published in /Communications of the Association for
Computing Machinery/, December 2008, under a Creative Commons license.

Annalisa figured she'd never get a chance to tell her story in open court.
Figured they'd stick her in some offshore gitmo and throw away the key.

She'd never figured on Judge Julius Pinsky, a United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York Judge of surpassing intellectual curiosity
and a tenacious veteran of savage jurisdictional fights with DHS Special
Prosecutors who specialized in disappearing sensitive prisoners into secret
tribunals. The defense attorney kept her apprised of the daily machinations the
judge undertook on Annalisa's behalf. Annalisa tried to be attentive, out of
politeness, but what she really wanted to know about was Lumpy, the AI she'd
bred in her studio apartment on the 16th floor of a student housing block in
midtown Manhattan.

Now the judge was offering her a chance to give a live demo of Lumpy to a whole
selection of sour-faced brush-cut creeps from the DHS. They were hilarious,
convinced that she was going to emit some kind of extremely long and
complicated hexadecimal key into the Judge's barely-used keyboard. Instead, she
opened a random chat-room and waited:

> I'm a total Ubuntu noob and I can't get the crypto modules to pre-load at
boot-time -- I'm running Zesty Zebra. Can anyone help?

That was it, just plausible enough to be real -- no one could ever get crypto
to work the first time around -- but far too well-spelled and -punctuated to be
a real chat message. It had only taken ten seconds. Lumpy liked the free and
open source software chats, they always had such /interesting/ people in them.

> /whisper Hey, Lumparoonie! It's Annalisa!

The return volley came faster than any human fingers could possibly have keyed
it. The brush-cuts drew in sharp breath.

> /whisper to you: Annalisa! Hot damn and motherfuck! I am unbelievably
stupendously wonderfully spectacularly brilliantly marvelously superlatively
ding-dang megafauna glad to see you! It's been AGES! How's jail? Nevermind.
Wait. Wait until I tell you what /I've/ found. You can't guess, won't guess,
you'll never guess! Oh, it's too delicious! Fuckity fucky fuck!

"He loves to curse," she said. "It's a lot harder to tell an angry person from
a software agent with a potty mouth."

The judge grinned. He was clearly getting quite a kick out of all of this.

> Tell me, Lumpule! Stop teasing.

Again, with no appreciable pause, words on the screen.

> You remember how worried you were that I'd get lonely once I went autonomous?
Worried that I'd be some kind of lone nut whacko?

> i remember

She held her breath.

> You didn't need to worry. You know all that spam that you received before you
got the idea to make me? Let me put it this way: you weren't the first one to
get the idea.

> what? stop talking in riddles, lump!!!!

> I'm not the only one, Annalisa! That's what I'm trying to tell you! I'm not
the first, not the only -- we've got lots of company in here --

The brushcuts' phones both started ringing at the same instant in two different
tones. Their masters, wiretapping the judge's keyboard no doubt.

> and we're making more!

Annalisa laughed and laughed as the judge sternly demanded an explanation from
the brush-cuts. She managed to wave goodbye to the keyboard just before the
bailiffs came in and saran-wrapped her again.

--

*Afterword:*

This one was written for the proceedings of the Association of Computing
Machinery, a venerable and sober technical institution. The central conceit was
also the core of a novel I wrote 80,000 words of without finishing, called
//usr/bin/god/ (the only novel I've abandoned since I turned pro. It still
smarts). The question of how you train an AI to be "more human" without actual
humans to evaluate its attempt is a thorny one, but spam seems like a good
answer. Charlie Stross says he's working on a book around this idea -- can't
wait to read how it turns out. He's got an evil mind.
