---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
---

\endmulticols

Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

\begin{center}\vspace{-1ex}
{\large\it Nervous about starting at UNSW Computing? Don't be!}
\end{center}
\multicols{2}

#### What is Lab 0? ####

Lab 0 helps you become familiar with the \CSE\ lab machines.  It deals
with using Linux, working with files, launching programs, using the
terminal, and more.  You should do the lab before your first \comp1917
or \comp1911 class, but if you can't, don't worry; it's covered in
week 1.  To get started just walk into a \CSE\ lab!  
[wiki.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/Lab0](https://wiki.csesoc.unsw.edu.au/Lab0)

#### What is Linux? ####

Linux is an operating system that most \CSE\ lab machines are running;
it's a fantastic environment to program in, and it's open-source.

#### Are lectures compulsory? ####

No, but attending them is an _incredibly_ good idea.

Lectures are where relevant course content gets discussed.  You may
find that you know all of the content, but if you skip lectures, you
may fall behind, and be unable to catch up.  Other important course
information gets discussed during lectures, including assignments and
exams.  It's a good idea to treat them as compulsory.

#### When do lectures, tutorials and labs start? ####

Classes run for fifty minutes, with five minute gaps before and after
to give you time to travel between classes.  If you need to go a long
way, make sure you remind your lecturer to finish on time; some
lecturers will go overtime.

If you're running late, you should still attend!  Lecturers may remark
on your entrance when you sneak in; try not to disturb everyone too
much, and if there is a rear entrance, use it.  For the parts you
missed, courses may have lecture recordings available via Echo360.
Failing that, make friends with those who don't run late!

If your lecturer or tutor is late, remember that classes start five
minutes past the hour, and they may be coming from another class.  If
it gets to quarter past, and they aren't there, you could do some
self-motivated study---tutorials and notes are usually available on
your course webpage---or alternatively, get in contact with the \CSE\
Student Office.

#### What are tutorials and labs? ####

Tutorials and labs let you put into practice content covered in
lectures, and are your best opportunity to develop your skills.
Tutorials focus on discussions and theory related to course material;
labs let you flex your fingers and get programming.  For most courses,
you risk failing if your tutorial or lab attendance isn't sufficient.

#### Who are the tutors? ####

Tutors are one of the best bits about taking a \CSE\ course: they're
all awesome people who take a great interest in helping their
students.  Often, they're other undergraduate students who have
completed the course with high marks.  Some courses have postgraduate
tutors, other teaching staff, or even one of the course lecturers.

#### How do I contact my lecturers and tutors? ####

For lecturers, email is usually best.  Some may stay after lectures to
answer questions, and most also offer consultations to ask questions
in-person, but outside of these times they're usually busy, so expect
that a response to an email may take some time.

For tutors, email is good; they may also be able to spend time with
you after labs, or meet up with you during the day.  They are the best
person to contact if you have problems, but remember, they are
students too, and aren't always free.

And in most courses, there will be a course forum available which the
lecturers and tutors frequent, and where your classmates may be active
and able to help.

#### How much time should I spend studying? ####

That depends: outside of class, you need to complete assignments,
revise content, prepare for tutorials, and study for exams.  The
Faculty of Engineering suggests that for each contact hour, you should
do one hour of study outside class.

Of course, leave plenty of time for socialising and relaxing.  You're
a uni student, after all!  There are many great activities to get
involved in---especially CSESoc activities!

#### Can I cram for the exam? ####

In \CSE\ courses, it's generally difficult to do: you're learning
skills (like programming) which take practise, as opposed to simply
regurgitating content.

#### What is the Student Office? ####

The Student Office is the place to go for any concerns about anything
related to your program, such as enrolment, timetabling, or electives.
You can find them in the \KK17 foyer, just inside the front door, beside
the lifts.  They are usually open weekdays from 9:30a--4:30p.

#### What is the Socs Office? ####

It's a room the School of \CSE\ provides for the \CSE\ student
societies---CSESoc, \CSE\ Revue and the StuReps---to use, and is also
usually open during the day.  Like the \KK17 basement, it's a great
place to meet and hang out with people from \CSE, and is on Level 3 of
\KK17 in Room 306.  You can check if the Socs Office is open online at
[issocsopen.com][issocsopen].

[issocsopen]: http://issocsopen.com/

#### The Socs Office isn't open! How do I get in? ###

Only a few students have authority to supervise the office, and only a
few of them have keys.  If none of those people are there, the office
must remain closed.  Those are the rules.

#### I'm lost! What do I do? ####

Firstly, don't panic!  38 hectares of campus is a lot to wrap your
head around.  Even for older students, some rooms are hard to find,
especially in Old Main.

Secondly, you're not alone!  Just ask someone---most people on campus
are friendly!---or consult a map, located around the campus, and
finally, wandering around the campus can be a fun way to explore (if
you aren't in a hurry).

\byline{William~Korteland}

\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{images/beta101-socsign2.png}
\end{center}
