\endmulticols\vfill

The Last Word
=============

\multicols{2}

Well, here we are: the end of another week's Beta.  I hope you enjoyed
it, and hey, we did too.

Last week, I was on a training course to learn about an application
that will form a key part of the business flow with the company I work
for.  The first time I came across it, I was less than impressed: it's
closed-source, it only runs on Windows, it's got a lumbering, painful
workflow, it _requires_ you use Outlook, its management console only
works with ancient versions of IE, its "web console" uses
Silverlight... you know the sort of thing I'm talking about.

But now, after spending a week properly learning to use the software,
and learning what it's capable of in more detail, I'm really excited
to use it for stuff, and one of my coworkers (a UNSW Engineering
alumnus) who came along for the course was _really_ quite excited
about the software too.

And that's weird.  Because the course itself was quite peculiarly
structured---the introductory task, for example, was essentially,
"here's how you make it connect to SQL Server"---and the 'lectures'
(and I use the term loosely) were just a guy reading off the projected
screen.

I know I wasn't alone in nodding off at least once... but somehow, I'm
excited about this hunk of ugly and misshapen goo.  It does one thing,
and it does it surprisingly well.  It fits into a perfect gap in our
business workflow, and it's easy to make it do exactly what we want.

I still don't understand much of the how, though.  Perhaps that's why
it's enjoyable: a tool that does what you expect within the black box
of idealism.

Anyhow, that's enough of me rambling on.  If you've stumbled across
anything interesting, or you're keen to get involved, join the team
via the CSESoc website, or send in an article: `beta@cse.unsw.edu.au`.
We'd love to hear from you, and hey, your article will very likely end
up in print.

Catch you next week!

\byline{Jashank~Jeremy}
