---
title: "Review: 'Tigersapp'"
author: Timothy Humphries
---

\endmulticols\LRmulticolcolumns\vfill

Review: 'Tigersapp'
===================

\multicols{2}

Enough has been written about the story of Szymon Borzestowski, genius
young Australian musician, in the wake of the posthumous release of
_Tigersapp_.  But very little has been written about the music itself:
it's implied to be good, but only based on the wonderment of a record
producer.  What about mere mortals who listen to music?

Well, it's _good_.  It's every bit as good as people rave about.

'Golden' kicks off _Tigersapp_ with a superbly-balanced blend of
delicately plucked guitars, a silvery synthesizer picking out a fine,
intricate melody, and ethereal vocals, which gains a drum/bass line
and delightfully memorable hook into its chorus.

And the vocals! Szymon's truly delightful, multi-layered, exceptionally
talented voice blends in as gentle counterpoint, not, as is so often
the case in modern "popular" music, a harsh collision of grating sounds.

'Locks' follows, its minor key juxtaposed with intricately-interwoven
sounds of a deeply complex instrumentation, while 'Medusa' has a
surprisingly different sound, evocative of surf rock with its
twanging, gritty guitar line.

'Roma' opens with another superbly picked-out melody, balanced against
a clarinet counterpoint, and brilliantly subverting conventional
notions of common rhythm.  'Katyusha' follows, opening with what could
be a sample of Vangelis, but tinged with the flavours of Flume, and
all evoking the soundscape of a less dystopic Los Angeles, 2019.

'Runaway' twangs out a juicy bassline, then lays down a pumping
trip-hop groove, with definite flavours of Emancipator.  A significant
improvement on the current popular fare sharing many of its lyrics.
'Saigon' follows the formula: a delicate introduction (on piano),
evocative sounds (a very Massive Attack feel), and a mellow,
makes-you-move groove, lightly tinted with unexpected, but spot-on,
woodwinds.

'Brokenworld' follows the lyrical trope of a sad resignation to
reality, with the precision mingling of woodwinds, this time saxophone
and clarinet, rounding out.  Following, but much more instrumental,
'Zoo Story' is almost the exact reverse: an infectious up-beat groove.

'Trojan Stalks' is a delicate, more folk-style piece, different again,
but in keeping with the eclectic compendium of sounds in the album.
It's followed up with 'Floods', which is a superb twinkling song, and
is truly great.

Rounding out the album, 'Polen', a quiet and gentle homage to Szymon's
homeland, Poland, humming with different layers and sounds, and
demonstrating again the artist's skill at balancing parts.

This is music as artistry, the likes of which is so, so rarely heard.
I keep saying balance when I talk about this album, and truly, that is
the ultimate feature of this album: genius filling and balancing of
pure instrumental sounds, in equal parts joyous and firmly focussed in
its execution.

\byline{Jashank Jeremy}
